# First Impressions:  Garmin ForeRunner 10 GPS Watch## 2013/08/26 14:58So the running thing ... I bought a Garmin ForeRunner 10 GPS watch - it cost &pound;70 Sterling on Amazon.I tried using Strava's Android app but it kept crashing on me everytime I stopped at traffic lights or to tie a shoelace. I looked intoinstalling other Running apps but they're all heavyweight - one ofthem was 18 Megabytes in size. I have a HTC Desire - it's 3 years oldand over the 3 years, Google Play, Maps etc have grown in size sothere's not a whole lot of space left on the phone. Plus, I'm oldenough to balk at *any* application that takes up 18 Megabytes ofspace. Also, I like to run without too much baggage or ceremony - I'vestopped taking my phone with me on runs because well ... I just wantto get out and run.So the idea of a GPS watch appeals to me because ... * It's lightweight - I wear the watch the whole time anyway. I don't have to carry it in my hand or buy a holder for it (which I'd have to remember to strap on to my arm).  * It doesn't require an 18 Megabyte download. * It doesn't vomit a Java stack trace every time I stop to tie my shoelaces.The watch itself is very basic. This is Garmin's entry-level GPS watch. I've been using it since Saturday and have taken it for a couple of walks, runs and a bike ride (though it's not designed for bike rides per se). I have a couple of quibbles... * The GPS pickup can sometimes be slow. I mean *really* slow. It can take up to 5 minutes getting the GPS location. The weather these past few days has been overcast and cloudy so that probably has something to do with it. Even so, I'm pretty sure the Android Phone's GPS pickup was faster - I haven't tested side-by-side yet but plan to. * The GPS tracking is - for the most part - fine. However, there have been 2 instances when the tracking was off by a couple of meters and once yesterday my wife was using the watch and it had her zipping off to the south atlantic - she covered a distance of 841 miles at a speed of 1 mile every 2 seconds. At least I *think* that was a glitch in the GPS Watch.What's good... * The AutoPause/AutoResume works flawlessly. Basically if you need to stop at traffic lights mid-run, the watch will autopause recording and autoresume recording when you start moving again. A really nice feature. * The Walk/Run option is really nice. Basically you can program it to alert you when you've finished Running a certain amout of time, and set times for walking too. Nice if you want to alternate between Running and Walking. I'm currently doing this these past few days while I recover from a broken gluteal. I Run 10 minutes then Walk 5 minutes and repeat. * It's also not bad as a plain-old-watch. It displays the time and the date and it's not much bulkier than a regular digital watch.  * The GarminConnect plugin is used by Strava, EndoMondo and MapMyRun so you can easily import Runs into any of these websites. It doesn't seem to work for RunKeeper though.It's still too early to say if this is a keeper but so far I'm fairly happy with it.## CategoriesRunning, GPS